hi
i'm barney from bbc good food and i'm
with jack monroe
and today we're going to be making a
chili in the microwave
fantastic let's get started excellent so
first
measuring chalk yeah i always certainly
measuring jug because anything that's
got a high liquid content yeah and tends
to bubble up
so just use a container that's basically
holds twice the volume of what you're
going to put in it
is one of my top tips chopped onion and
some garlic okay so minced garlic
yeah and we're just going to add a
little bit of butter okay so you're
using butter but could you use oil
yeah you could use oil in this if you
wanted to
i'm just going to pop that in the
microwave for 30 seconds just to
soften just to take off that sort of
that raw edge that you get from onion
and garlic
next is just case of adding everything
else should we eat your spices
yep so which spices you're using so i've
got a little bit of paprika a little bit
of cumin a little bit of chili
i use sweet paprika i like smoked
paprika but i'd leave that to a long
slow cook but again
you know we're all different so if you
want to use smoke you smoked
my general rule when cooking something
in a microwave that's quite heavily
spiced is to use about half the amount
of spices that you would when you're
cooking something on the hob because it
doesn't have that long
slow cooking time for the spices to
really sink in and develop
but then our spice tolerance is all
different so if you think you can handle
it you know sling it in
so paprika cumin chili classic south
american spices yep
and less classic south american half a
stock just to give it some sort of
underpinning flavor and the impression
that it's been cooking for a lot longer
than it has
lovely and next i'm going to stick my
kidney beans in
and finally yeah okay 10 tomatoes
yes i'm going to sieve them just because
where you haven't got that long slow
cooked
liquid doesn't tend to evaporate like it
would on the whole but doesn't reduce
it's easier to take the liquid out at
this stage and then apply it at the end
if you need it
now you're stirring the sift tomatoes
through yeah okay
just stirring it through i'm gonna make
an assessment as to how
wet it is now i've spotted you've got an
ingredient there which not everyone
would kind of associate with chili which
is chocolate
yeah that's going in right it's going in
last okay
oh i love chocolate and chilli it gives
it that real underpinning sort of
bitterness
it gives it a real richness a real depth
of flavor right i'm going to cover this
up
yeah because you know when you get um
microwave mills and they always come
with those film lids and yeah
you know piercing on top before putting
them in the microwave there you go
oh okay invent your own film lid pierce
it on the top that
keeps the steam in which helps it cook
keeps the moisture in and kind of pop it
in for a couple of minutes so it's two
more minutes at high again
yep
[Music]
right so that's how it's two minutes
okay
out she comes is that done now no not
yet it needs to just stand for a minute
be really careful when you're peeling
back the clean film um don't peel it
back
like this away from you peel it back
like this so any steam escapes
and doesn't burn you in the face give it
a quick stir
i have to say that i mean that smells
amazing already put that chocolatey
goodness in there
i have to say i don't put much microwave
through the home at all and this is
starting to convert me i'm going to pop
my last chocolate square in there
very nice yeah and cover that back up
quite carefully and back in the
microwave lovely so what two more
minutes another two minutes
don't think that you can just stick it
in for four minutes and be done with it
it does need that minute to calm down to
stir through
to cool down a bit because you take that
out there after two minutes and it's
gonna be like molten lava and all the
little microwaves are gonna be
jiggling around in there doing their hot
stuff and making it all hot and cooking
all through and they need that minute in
between to just settle back down so you
can bring them back up again
well that's how that's had you stirred
it around you'd leave that for a minute
longer yeah leave for a minute longer
let the microwaves have their little
parsley
i think that's good enough to eat
already yeah it's going to be really hot
bunny
okay i'm going to blow on it but that
actually does look i have to say
that looks like it's been cooked for a
good 40 minutes on the hob and that's
taking you literally five minutes five
minutes in a minute
from start to finish amazing
the chocolate just gives it a depth of
flavor there's nothing more to do with
that than get it served up on a plate
with some rice and some sour cream
take it away from me or to see it all
out jug there you go
thank you
[Music]